# Usage
you **MUST** install `snakemake` following the [docs](https://snakemake.readthedocs.io/en/stable/getting_started/installation.html) and install softwares these workflows depend on.

We provide a simple way to install the dependences:  

    conda create env -f environment.yml  

Some dependences you need to install by your self.  

# Files
## Files in Snakemake_codes
    Snakemake_codes
    |-- Nanopore_SV.py
    |-- Nanopore_SV.yaml
    |-- Pair-end.py
    |-- Pair-end.yaml
    |-- WGS.py
    |-- WGS.yaml
    |-- single.py
    `-- single.yaml
Files ended with .py is `snakemake` rule for workflow running.  
YAML files contains parameter settings for these workflow, defining locating of FASTQ files, reference, annotations and other setting.

## Files in Data folder
    Data
    |-- Nanopore 
    |   |-- Nano_sub
    |   `-- Nano_sub.fastq.gz
    |-- RNA_seq
    |   |-- RNA_sub_R1.fastq.gz
    |   |-- RNA_sub_R1_fastqc.html
    |   |-- RNA_sub_R2.fastq.gz
    |   `-- RNA_sub_R2_fastqc.html
    `-- WGS
        |-- sub_R1.fastq.gz
        |-- sub_R1_fastqc.html
        |-- sub_R2.fastq.gz
        `-- sub_R2_fastqc.html
1. This Folder contains Sequencing data extract from REAL experiment sequencing reads through `seqtk`, these files are ending by "fastq.gz".
The RNA-seq and WGS data wrere extrackted 15000 reads for every run, and 10000 reads for Nanopore sequencing.  
2. The HTML file were generated by `FastQC`, and Nano_sub folder contains quality report generated by `NanoPlot`.
3. Nano_sub.fastq.gz contains a gene deletion (*ZMO0028*)  in *Zymomonas mobilis* ZM4. RNA_sub_R1 and RNA_sub_R2 is paired RNA-seq data of *Zymomonas mobilis* 3.6M in pH6 . sub_R1 and sub_R2 is paired genome Re-seq data of *Zymomonas mobilis* 3.6M in pH6. ([The work of strain 3.6M have been published](https://biotechnologyforbiofuels.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s13068-020-01781-1)，you can get RAW sequencing data through PRJNA590883 and PRJNA644990）

Extracted sequence is for TESTING, which contains enough reads to get data but also small enough to save uploading and running time.

Support <chenyunhao@stu.hubu.edu.cn>